Barbalat integration review — 2026-09-30

Reviewed branch: barbalat-ralph at 3e5fdd8
Target: dev at a98e772 (Lean/mathlib v4.35.0-rc2)
Source: Farkas and Wegner, Variations on Barbalat's Lemma,
arXiv:1411.1611v3, locally cached from papers/barbalats_lemma_1411.1611v3.pdf.

Verdict: suitable for integration after the compatibility fixes below.
No mathematical or proof-trust blocker found in the reviewed declarations.

Source correspondence

Theorems 1 and 4 preserve convergence of the improper integral, rather than
requiring absolute integrability. The Banach-valued conclusion is obtained
from a tail-average estimate and uniform continuity on the half-line.
Theorems 5 and Lemma 6 have scalar absolute-continuity/a.e.-derivative forms,
including the finite-q and infinity cases; the everywhere-differentiable
Banach-valued variants are separate. Corollary 9 has both the scalar AC
finite-q rate and the Lipschitz infinity endpoint. The adaptive-control
example derives V' = -2 e^2 and convergence of e, assuming the trajectory
equations. The additional Lyapunov bridge uses global nonnegativity supplied
by IsLyapunovOn.pos; its trajectory-invariance argument is intentionally
unused and retained for API compatibility.

Changes made during integration

- Fixed four infinity-norm rewrites to supply AEStronglyMeasurable explicitly,
  as required by the newer mathlib API.
- Shared the finite-q quantitative estimate between the everywhere-derivative
  and AC versions through a private Holder-bound helper.
- Replaced the adaptive-control example's manual epsilon/delta estimate with
  mathlib's derivative-bound-to-Lipschitz theorem.
- Preserved all existing public declaration signatures and docstrings.
- Resolved the root import conflict by retaining both dev's imports and the
  Barbalat imports. Preserved dev's toolchain and dependency manifest.
- Added the Lyapunov bridge to the manual and clarified coverage boundaries.

Coverage boundaries

Example 7 is omitted. Lemma 2 uses a general modulus instead of the explicit
local oscillation supremum construction. The same-exponent Sobolev corollary
requires p > 1 and does not cover p = q = 1. AC results are scalar-valued.
Rates use the supremum of finite tail integrals; its equality with the
infinite tail integral of |f|^p is not packaged as a separate theorem.
The adaptive-control example assumes classical trajectory derivatives;
existence, uniqueness, and a general Caratheodory-to-AC bridge are outside
this implementation. No parameter convergence claim for theta is made.

Validation on the final integrated sources

lake build DynamicalSystems DynamicalSystems.Documentation
  Passed (4144 jobs). Existing warnings elsewhere in dev remain.
lake lint -- DynamicalSystems.Mathlib.Analysis.Calculus.Barbalat
             DynamicalSystems.Stability.Barbalat
  Both passed.
lake exe axiom-audit --root DynamicalSystems
  --modules DynamicalSystems.Mathlib.Analysis.Calculus.Barbalat,DynamicalSystems.Stability.Barbalat
  --json
  Passed: 287 declarations including imported project dependencies;
  only propext, Classical.choice, Quot.sound; zero violations.
Public-signature comparison against the reviewed branch: passed.
Forbidden proof-token scan and 100-character source-width checks: passed.
git diff --check: passed.
